The University of Cincinnati Clifton Campus has a very large student population, most of whom
utilize the on-campus roads, sidewalks, and other walkways to get to and from classes and
extracurricular activities. Many of them utilize other forms of transportation to get around
to their destinations. There are a few different methods that these students will use to get
around, including Bird Electric Scooters(Offered by the University), bicycles, longboards/cruiser
boards(electric and manual), skateboards, roller skates, and Onewheels or similar devices.
The wide use of alternate transportation on campus gives way to a few problems regarding the
different walkways and roads. Like all transportation across the board including cars,
deterioration of the pathways can cause damage to the transportation or its user. However,
specifically on UC’s campus in the event of an accident, the damage is usually done to the rider
themselves. This proposal calls for the upkeep of maintenance, major or minor, to the walkways,
sidewalks, and roads on campus, to ensure the safety of the student population, along with
displaying the dangers of deteriorated roads, instances of this on UC Clifton campus, methods to fix
it, cost effective methods and actions, and an opportunity to get the actual community involved
in an easy and effective way.The majority of UC in terms of walkways and roads, is mostly walkways
with only a few roads leading into campus, as the entire campus is enclosed by four major roads on
all sides. UC Clifton campus is also very compact, with all the facilities such as classrooms, dorms,
athletic structures, garages, and more being stuffed together in about a single square mile. This
heightens the use of main walkways and roads by not only walkers and riders, but also by campus
vehicles that have no other way to get to and from locations such as UC Police, maintenance,
construction vehicles, and busses. All these things using the same walkways and roads on campus
all year round increases deterioration rates, which more directly affects those who use alternate
methods of transportation on campus.There are many different obstacles that could be hazardous to
a rider, this includes things like debris, cracks, holes, lifted slabs, and others that could
disrupt or stop a rider, throwing them off balance or causing a fall. This article called “Sidewalk
and Walkway Trip Hazards”, by Tom Lodge, describes dangers to people walking and reasons why they
do not anticipate a fall before it happens. In the article Tom says, “Pedestrians typically scan
ahead in the direction of their travel, not directly down in front of their feet. Low elements in
the path of travel are not readily identified and are frequent causes of falls resulting in injury.
Pedestrians are not likely to see and avoid inconspicuous walkway and sidewalk hazards at or near
ground level. If the first identification of a hazard comes when there is an interruption of the
gait and loss of balance, a trip and fall may result.” I believe this also applies to riders, as
many are not looking directly at the ground as they ride, rather looking forward to their destination.
Hazards in the road or walkway may not be immediately apparent to them. The article then goes on and
states some examples of hazards, including vertical displacements, cracks, loose or displaced concrete,
holes, and depressions. All of which would affect the stability of a rider. 	I am one who prefers to
ride my cruiser board around campus rather than walk, and while I don’t fall often, I did my freshmen
year on campus due to walkway deterioration. Since then, I have ridden so much that I have mapped out
many of the hazards around campus. The spot that I fell almost three years ago is still there and has
gotten much worse. Here I will display some instances that would prove to be hazardous for riders.Left
to Right: Daniels/Dabney Crosswalk, CCM Circle, Zimmer/Rieveschl Road and Sidewalk, Main St/Center
Court, UC Fountain/Arts & Sciences,
